# gRPC简介
> gRPC是一款高性能、开源的RPC框架，产自Google，基于ProtoBuf序列化协议进行开发，支持多种语言(Golang、Python、Java等)，本篇只介绍Golang的gRPC使用。因为gRPC对HTTP/2协议的支持使其在Android、IOS等客户端后端的开发领域具有良好的前景。gRPC提供了一种简单的方法来定义服务，同时客户端可以充分利用HTTP/2 stream的特性，从而有助于节省贷款、降低TCP的连接次数、节省CPU的使用等

## 安装
- src: https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go



## Protocal Buffers
> install the protoc compiler that is used generate gRPC service code.The simplest way to do this is to download pre-compiled binaries for your platform from here: https://github.com/google/protobuf/releases
- select xx-osx-xx.zip
- Unzip this file
- Update the environment variable PATH to include the path to the protoc binary file.

> install the protoc plugin for Go: `go get -u github.com/golang/protobuf/protoc-gen-go`

> The compiler plugin,protoc-gen-go,will be installed in $GOBIN, defaulting to $GOPATH/bin. It must be in your $PATH for the protocol compiler,protoc,to find it.
`export GOBIN=$GOPATH/bin`
`export PATH=$PATH:$GOBIN`

## Download the example
> The grpc code that was fetched with `go get google.golang.org/grpc-go` also contains the examples.They can be found under the examples dir:$GOPATH/src/google.golang.org/grpc-go/examples

## Build the example
> Change to the example directory:`cd $GOPATH/src/google.golang.org/grpc/examples/helloworld`

gRPC services are defined in a .proto file,which is used to generate a corresponding .pb.go file.
The .pb.go file is generated by compiling the .proto file using the protocol compiler: `protoc .`

For the purpose of this example,the helloworld.pb.go file has already been generated(by compiling helloworld.proto),and can be found in this directory:$GOPATH/src/google.golang.org/grpc/examples/helloworld/helloworld

This helloworld.pb.go file contains:
- Generated client and server code
- Code for populating,serializing,and retrieving our HelloRequest and HelloReply message type


## Try it!
To compile and run the server and client code,the go run command can be used.In the examples directory:
`go run greeter_server/main.go`

From a different terminal: `go run greeter_client/main.go`

If things go smoothly, you will see the 'Greeting: Hello world' in the client side output.

## Generate gRPC code
> `protoc -I helloworld/ helloworld/helloworld.proto --go_out=plugins=grpc:helloworld`
